Welcome back can in this lesson we're going to turn what we did in the previous lesson into a country
name guessing game.
So let's make those updates so we did have load data.
So let's just say new country.
So this will always generate a new country.
We also need maybe we can have our input here.
So this is the input and to type
text and give it an idea of.
Yes so this is where we're going to hold the users guess information.
And next let's create a couple device.
So needs some outputs so id of output 1 and give it to clos so that we can add some styling to make
it look a little bit better.
Some of it is plain and let's duplicate that.
So we're have output one and put two and that's all we can have our solutions as well as the randomized
guess values.
Let's add some quick styling to box and of course there's always you can always make these look a lot
nicer.
I do want to keep the focus of this application more on the Javascript.
So I'm not going to spend a lot of time on the C S us so I'm just setting a background color.
We'll just take ILO's Baloo and we'll set a border.
So one pick solid block border let's add some padding to 10 pics of padding and margin and pick's margin.
So there we go.
So now we've got a couple boxes there.
Let's refresh it just see it looks.
So there we go.
So we're going to have our input area there where we're going to have our guess.
And we also need to have another button to guess the the name the value.
So I need to enter in
subside here.
And this one is going to be yes and my and we'll call it my guess.
So not to be confused with yes.
The idea of this one is my guess.
So this is basically the button that you click in order to submit your guess.
So next part is that we need to hook up all of this stuff we need to shuffle the words and we need to
output them.
And then lastly we're going to do a comparison to see if the users guess is correct.
So quite a few things that we need to still build here within the application.
So we got this far where we were outputting that value and now we know that we've been able to pick
a word so we can output that here within that output area.
So another thing that we need to do is we need to scramble that word and we also need to scramble the
players guess values as well because we want the player to be able to type something and hit gas and
be able to see that output here.
And if the user doesn't have the right letters then we're just going to put a dash.
So let's let's add all of that in.
So let's set up documents
and get element by id and we're going to just simply go directly to the output so output 1.
And this is where inner h t m l and this is going to be equaled to and we're going to create a function
called shuffle word and we're going to grab pick name.
So that's the actual name that was selected.
Because remember when we grab that object here where it containing even more information with it so
we don't want to do that whenever we do this new country.
We've got the name but then we've got more data here and object.
So we're only looking for the name and the rest of the stuff we can actually put in as clues or hints
in the game.
So if we want to enhance the game there's quite a bit of data here that we can make use of.
So next let's shuffle the word sole function and this one is going to shuffle the letters or shuffle
the word and we have done this one before as well.
So we want to create a function that we can reuse.
And I'm going to run through this pretty quickly because we have done something similar before.
So let's set up our response and we'll set that response to be blocked blank.
We're going to take that word value and we're going to split it in.
So basically split it and we're going to create an array out of it.
So do w and that should be equals to w split.
So we'll split it and let's saw a console log that it would.
So a console log out w Let's see how this works so far we might encounter an error but let's try that.
So there we go.
So we've got all of the letters split and we've got on.
So let's try that again.
So this one not Tunisia.
So we can see that the country is split but we haven't reorganized the words yet.
We haven't reorganized those those values.
So within here we need to return back the response because a function that was sent in.
So we want to return back the response of those reordered words and let's do a while loop and we're
going to loop through the length of.
So while the length is greater than zero.
And what we're going to do is we're going to build out the response as we deconstruct as we remove stuff
out of the tree.
So we're going to add values and we're going to do.
We're going to use splice and using math random again.
So math floor math or random
and let's multiply it by the length that's remaining within the word.
And we're going to splay So one position and I need to fix that response.
So there we go.
So let's see.
And then what we want to do is let's put that value.
So we did have an error there.
So let's update that.
So it was I put the semi-colon wrong spot.
So let's try that again.
So now whenever we click it there's our country's scrambled so the next step is that I also want to
put out a bunch of dashes here for the length of the word that we've sent in so the user roughly knows
how many letters there are within that output.
So not one here.
Let's create another variable to hold this information and we're going to be outputting that value.
So let's instead of shuffle word we don't need to shuffle it.
We can just do WW.
So that will be our word.
Basically dasht word and we know that we've picked the word at this point.
So we need to create a bunch of dashes.
So let's set up a variable W.W. set that to be blank.
And now let's loop through the length of the words and update.
So we know that we've picked out a name so let's do a for loop here.
So variable x equals zero.
And we're going to loop while X is less than the length of the name.
And we're using the string values again so it's pick a name and length.
So that's actually going to give us a length of the name string value and all we need to do is increment.
So we need to add two w w w w w just the two W's we need to add that value.
So let's try that out.
Refresh hit new country.
So we see that this is probably France and we've got the six characters there for the gas.
So the next item up that we need to do is we need to allow the user to create a guess of the word.
We have to do a condition check to see if the user gets the word correctly and then output it.
And of course we can go into our javascript console and we can see the name.
So we know that this is France.
So we need to make sure that the user can enter in a word here and we can do a comparison to make sure
and see if the users guess is correct.
So I want you to do now before the next lesson is to add in an event listener tying it into the button
my guess.
So we can create Let's create a separate function and we'll call it guess word.
So function and yes word.
And so we want to fire off this function.
And this is where all of our condition is going to take place.
So first of all we need to get that value of yes.
So we need to get that input value here.
Next we need to check to see if the if the users guess is going to be equal to our guess and the way
that I wanted to do it.
I want to do it a little bit differently.
So I want to have a loop through the letters of each.
So I do a loop through the letters of PIC name and we're going to compare letter by letter.
So the first letter of the guess compared to the first letter of the actual real one.
And don't forget to also use the method to lower case so that we don't have to worry about that the
user is put in the case incorrectly that they're all going to be lowercase.
And that also means that we should update this to be all uppercase.
So again depending on what we want to do or maybe we want to transform this all to be lowercase because
we see that the way it's being output here that it's automatically coming in as uppercase.
We know that that's the first letter.
So that's what we need to do.
And then we need to update that output to so Update put to Worth correct letters.
So that's it.
So let's let's do that.
So give it a try and I'll show you the solution coming up in the next lesson.